GSoC contributor blog for Renovate probe (#6644)
jenkins-infra/jenkins.io: content/blog/2023/08/28/2023-08-28-renovate-bote-probe-blog.adoc

---
layout: post
title: Renovate Probe
tags:
- gsoc
- gsoc2023
- healthscore
- probes
- plugin
authors:
- jagruti
opengraph:
  image: /images/gsoc/2023/jagruti/renovate-probe.jpg
sig:
- gsoc
---

== Introduction

> Bots are used to automate tasks in a plugin. Plugin Health Scoring Systems tracks usage of two bots - Dependabot, link:https://docs.renovatebot.com/[Renovate].
> 
> Renovate probe checks whether Renovate is configured in a plugin.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Bots are used to automate tasks in a plugin.
The Plugin Health Scoring System tracks usage of two bots - link:https://github.com/dependabot[Dependabot] and link:https://docs.renovatebot.com/[Renovate].

The renovate probe checks whether Renovate is configured in a plugin.
```

I would suggest adding some context here, maybe what Dependabot and Renovate do and why the probe is necessary/desired

> == Importance of the probe
> 
> This a community requested probe to track the usage of Renovate.
> 
> The pull requests created by Renovate will be counted when scoring the probe.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Importance of the probe

This a community requested probe to track the usage of Renovate.
The pull requests created by Renovate will be counted when scoring the probe.
```
why is the community requesting this, and what is the goal of the probe tracking when Renovate is in use? There seems to be some context missing here.

> == Challenges
> 
> This probe required creating an `abstract` class and reconfiguring the Dependabot class to use the new `abstract` class.
> 
> Having worked on a similar case in the previous probe, this probe was easy to complete.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Challenges

The renovate probe required creating an `abstract` class and reconfiguring the Dependabot class to use the new `abstract` class.

Having worked on a similar case in the previous probe, this probe was easy to complete.
```
What was the challenge with the abstract class, what was challenging about reconfiguring Dependabot in this case?

In regards to the second line, the use of `previous probe` would not make sense as there is no link to the previous probe. If you are referring to the number of issues probe, that would need to be published before you would be able to refer to/link to it. Otherwise, this information does not necessarily make sense to the reader.

== Outcome

The probe is successfully merged and live into production.

> == Conclusion

Author: This is a really simple probe and there isn't much to describe. The information in the "Conclusion" section is repetitive here. Would it be fine to remove it?

> == Outcome
> 
> The probe is successfully merged and live into production.
> 
> == Conclusion
> 
> The probe will help identify usage of Renovate in the plugin.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Outcome and Conclusion

The probe has been successfully merged and pushed into production.
The probe will help identify usage of Renovate in plugins.

```
suggestion for formatting and syntax

If there really is no more context to be had here, then I would say combine the Outcome & Conclusion sections into one, and put the information there.

---
layout: post
title: Renovate Probe
tags:
- gsoc
- gsoc2023
- healthscore
- probes
- plugin
authors:
- jagruti
opengraph:
  image: /images/gsoc/2023/jagruti/renovate-probe.jpg
sig:
- gsoc
---

== Introduction

Bots are used to automate tasks in a plugin.
The Plugin Health Scoring System tracks usage of two bots - link:https://github.com/dependabot[Dependabot] and link:https://docs.renovatebot.com/[Renovate].

> Dependabot looks for dependencies that are outdated in a plugin. It can also raise a security alert if a security breach is found like when the code depends on an insecure package.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Dependabot looks for dependencies that are outdated in a plugin.
It can also raise a security alert if a security breach is found, like when the code depends on an insecure package.
```
suggestion for punctuation

> Renovate provides automated dependency updates. It can also schedule PRs, and customize behavior using configuration files.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Renovate provides automated dependency updates.
It can also schedule PRs and customize behavior using configuration files.
```
suggestion for formatting

> == Importance of the probe
> 
> This a community requested probe to track the usage of Renovate. Bot tracking probes help in identifying which bot is used most by the plugins. In the future, the probe will aid in decision-making when the need arises to add or remove a bot.
> 
> The pull requests created by Renovate will be counted when scoring the probe.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Importance of the probe

This is a community requested probe to track the usage of Renovate.
Bot tracking probes help in identifying which bot is used most by the plugins.
In the future, the probe will aid in decision-making when the need arises to add or remove a bot.

The pull requests created by Renovate will be counted when scoring the probe.
```
suggestion for formatting/syntax

== Challenges

The renovate probe required creating an `abstract` class and reconfiguring the Dependabot class to use the new `abstract` class.

> `Dependabot` and `Renovate` probes both had similar functionality: finding their respective configuration in `GitHub` workflow.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`Dependabot` and `Renovate` probes both had similar functionality: finding their respective configuration in `GitHub` workflow.
```
This reads as though the similar functionality is how to find their respective configurations. Is the similarity in how they work, where they are found, or something else entirely?

Author: The similarity is in "where they are found". The configuration files for both are found in the `GitHub` workflow. 

And if the configuration exists means the bot is used.

Reviewer: Ah okay, thank you very much for clarifying @Jagrutiti !

> The tasks were as follows:
> 
> - Identify the similarity in both the probes.
> - Reuse the existing `Dependabot` probe code in the new `abstract` class.
> - Write abstract methods that should be implemented in both the child classes to allow code reusability.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The tasks were as follows:

- Identify the similarity in both probes.
- Reuse the existing `Dependabot` probe code in the new `abstract` class.
- Write abstract methods that should be implemented in both the child classes to allow for code reusability.
```
suggestion for syntax

> Having implemented a similar class in link:../../07/16/2023-07-16-security-scan-probe-blog.adoc[Security Scan] probe, this probe was easy to complete.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Having implemented a similar class in the link:../../07/16/2023-07-16-security-scan-probe-blog.adoc[Security Scan] probe, this probe was easy to complete.
```
suggestion to add syntax for readability

---
layout: post
title: Renovate Probe
tags:
- gsoc
- gsoc2023
- healthscore
- probes
- plugin
authors:
- jagruti
opengraph:
  image: /images/gsoc/2023/jagruti/renovate-probe.jpg
sig:
- gsoc
---

== Introduction

Bots are used to automate tasks in a plugin.
The Plugin Health Scoring System tracks usage of two bots - link:https://github.com/dependabot[Dependabot] and link:https://docs.renovatebot.com/[Renovate].

Dependabot looks for dependencies that are outdated in a plugin.
It can also raise a security alert if a security breach is found, like when the code depends on an insecure package.

Renovate provides automated dependency updates.
It can also schedule PRs and customize behavior using configuration files.

== Importance of the probe

This is a community requested probe to track the usage of Renovate.
Bot tracking probes help in identifying which bot is used most by the plugins.
In the future, the probe will aid in decision-making when the need arises to add or remove a bot.

The pull requests created by Renovate will be counted when scoring the probe.

== Challenges

> The renovate probe required creating an `abstract` class and reconfiguring the Dependabot class to use the new `abstract` class.

Reviewer 2: Too small details?

If you want to share about that, maybe discuss the higher level idea which is you wanted to avoid code duplication with the Dependabot class?

`Dependabot` and `Renovate` probes both had similar functionality: finding their respective configuration in `GitHub` workflow.

The tasks were as follows:

- Identify the similarity in both probes.
- Reuse the existing `Dependabot` probe code in the new `abstract` class.
- Write abstract methods that should be implemented in both the child classes to allow for code reusability.

> Having implemented a similar class in the link:../../07/16/2023-07-16-security-scan-probe-blog.adoc[Security Scan] probe, this probe was easy to complete.

Reviewer 2: > this probe was easy to complete.

But you listed this in the challenge?
